Server 10.11 Release Notes (#4778)
owncloud/docs: modules/ROOT/pages/server_release_notes.adoc

:page-aliases: {latest-server-version}@server:admin_manual:whats_new_admin.adoc, \
{latest-server-version}@server:ROOT:server_release_notes.adoc

> * xref:changes-in-10-10-0[Changes in 10.11.0]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:changes-in-10-11-0[Changes in 10.11.0]
```

* xref:changes-in-8-0[Changes in 8.0]
* xref:changes-in-7-0[Changes in 7.0]

== Changes in 10.11.0

Dear ownCloud administrator, find below the changes and known issues in ownCloud Server 10.11 that need your attention. You can also read {oc-changelog-url}[the full ownCloud Server changelog] for further details on what has changed.

=== Migrations

> When upgrading from ownCloud Server 10.10, there will be no migrations steps impacting the upgrade duration. Therefore the upgrade is expected to finish quickly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When upgrading from ownCloud Server 10.10, there will be no migration steps impacting the upgrade duration. Therefore the upgrade is expected to finish quickly.
```

> When upgrading from ownCloud Server 10.10, there will be no migrations steps impacting the upgrade duration. The upgrade is expected to finish quickly, therefore.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When upgrading from ownCloud Server 10.10, there will be no migrations steps impacting the upgrade duration. Ttherfore the upgrade is expected to finish quickly.
```

=== Edit Permission for Public Links on Single Files

> In previous versions of ownCloud Server, public links on single files could only be created with read-only permissions (`Download / View`). If users wanted to share a file enabling recipients to change it, they had to put that file into a folder and share that with permissions for editing (`Download / View / Edit`). Server 10.11 introduces the `Download / View / Edit` role for public link shares on single files to make a user's life easier. Especially when using ownCloud in combination with web office solutions like ONLYOFFICE, Collabora Online or Microsoft Office Online, users can now quickly and conveniently collaborate on documents with external parties. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40264[#40264]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In previous versions of ownCloud Server, public links on single files could only be created with read-only permissions (`Download / View`). If users wanted to share a file and enable recipients to change it, they had to put that file into a folder and share that with permissions for editing (`Download / View / Edit`). Server 10.11 introduces the `Download / View / Edit` role for public link shares on single files to make a user's life easier. Especially when using ownCloud in combination with web office solutions like ONLYOFFICE, Collabora Online or Microsoft Office Online, users can now quickly and conveniently collaborate on documents with external parties. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40264[#40264]
```

=== Sharing with Multiple Users at once

> Server 10.11 introduces the ability to share with multiple users/groups at once by entering their identifiers (e.g., display name, user ID, email address, federated cloud ID) as a comma-separated list in the sharing dialog (e.g., `alice,bob@example.org,carol,teachers`. Based on the inputs, ownCloud will decide how to create the shares (e.g., share with an internal user, invite a new guest, create a federated share). This way, users can easily invite many recipients at once to their files and folders. With Custom Groups version 0.7.0 onwards the same behavior also applies to adding users to Custom Groups. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40155[#40155] https://github.com/owncloud/customgroups/pull/522[customgroups#522] https://github.com/owncloud/guests/pull/506[guests#506]

Reviewer: Need to check this - I thought that the sharing UI on the classic webUI expects the comma-separated list to be a list of users. Groups can't be included in the list. (I remember testing with a group called "brian,carol" and 2 users "brian" and "carol" to check what happens if there is also a group name that happens to be exactly the comma-separated list of user names)

So I think that the example can't have a group called "teachers" at the end.

Author: You're right. Will remove that. Thanks for checking carefully.

=== Inviting New Guests to Custom Groups

> Server 10.11 in combination with Custom Groups 0.7.0 and Guests 0.11.0 allows to invite new guest users directly into a Custom Group. Previously this was only possible by sharing files with new guests first and creating their user account thereby. New guests will not have access to any files nor will they be able to create/upload own files unless there is a share with the respective Custom Group or with the guest user. https://github.com/owncloud/customgroups/pull/521[#521] https://github.com/owncloud/guests/pull/506[guests#506]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server 10.11 in combination with Custom Groups 0.7.0 and Guests 0.11.0 allows inviting new guest users directly into a Custom Group. Previously this was only possible by sharing files with new guests first and creating their user account thereby. New guests will not have access to any files nor will they be able to create/upload their own files unless there is a share with the respective Custom Group or with the guest user. https://github.com/owncloud/customgroups/pull/521[#521] https://github.com/owncloud/guests/pull/506[guests#506]
```

> Server 10.11 in combination with Custom Groups 0.7.0 and Guests 0.11.0 allows to invite new guest users directly into a Custom Group. Previously this was only possible by sharing files with new guests first and creating their user account thereby. New guests will not have access to any files nor will they be able to create/upload own files unless there is a share with the respective Custom Group or with the guest user itself. https://github.com/owncloud/customgroups/pull/521[#521] https://github.com/owncloud/guests/pull/506[guests#506]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Server 10.11 in combination with Custom Groups 0.7.0 and Guests 0.11.0 allows to invite new guest users directly into a Custom Group. Previously this was only possible by sharing files with new guests first and creating their user account thereby. New guests will not have access to any files nor will they be able to create/upload own files unless there is a share with the respective Custom Group or with the guest user. https://github.com/owncloud/customgroups/pull/521[#521] https://github.com/owncloud/guests/pull/506[guests#506]
```

=== Notable Changes

> * The default app on login can now be set per individual user. ownCloud Web will use this to remember the which UI the user has used in their last session. This way, users are always redirected to their preferred UI after logging in. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/39600[#39600]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The default app on login can now be set per individual user. ownCloud Web will use this to remember which UI the user has used during their last session. This way, users are always redirected to their preferred UI after logging in. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/39600[#39600]
```

* ownCloud Web will now respect the user's language setting. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40087[#40087]
* The command `occ background:queue:status` will now output more information about background jobs. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40113[#40113]
* Quota handling has been improved (e.g., when copying or uploading files into shared folders). https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/39895[#39895]
* The context menu for multiple file actions in public links (e.g., "Open with PDF Viewer") works again. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40143[#40143]
* Storage encryption has received stability improvements. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40240[#40240] 

> * Guest users will not see settings sections anymore if they are not allowed to use them. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40257[#40257]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Guest users will no longer see settings sections which they are not allowed to use. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40257[#40257]
```

* The process for the first login of a new user is now more stable. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40091[#40091]

> * App passwords now continue to work even when an LDAP connection is temporary not available. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40152[#40152]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* App passwords now continue to work even when an LDAP connection is temporarily not available. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40152[#40152]
```

=== Notable Changes

* The default app on login can now be set per individual user. ownCloud Web will use this to remember which UI the user has used during their last session. This way, users are always redirected to their preferred UI after logging in. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/39600[#39600]
* ownCloud Web will now respect the user's language setting. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40087[#40087]
* The command `occ background:queue:status` will now output more information about background jobs. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40113[#40113]
* Quota handling has been improved (e.g., when copying or uploading files into shared folders). https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/39895[#39895]
* The context menu for multiple file actions in public links (e.g., "Open with PDF Viewer") works again. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40143[#40143]
* Storage encryption has received stability improvements. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40240[#40240] 

> * Guest users will no longer see settings sections which they are not allowed to use. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40257[#40257]

Reviewer 3: Nope. My guest user always sees customsgroups. whitelisted or not.
https://github.com/owncloud/guests/issues/516#issuecomment-1241300003

Reviewer: See guests PR https://github.com/owncloud/guests/pull/518 - that is the missing piece for this guest whitelist fix. We need a guests app release to go with core 10.11

Reviewer 3: Much better! thanks!

=== Sharing with Multiple Users at once

Server 10.11 introduces the ability to share with multiple users at once by entering their identifiers (e.g., display name, user ID, email address, federated cloud ID) as a comma-separated list in the sharing dialog (e.g., `alice,bob@example.org,carol`. Based on the inputs, ownCloud will decide how to create the shares (e.g., share with an internal user, invite a new guest, create a federated share). This way, users can easily invite many recipients at once to their files and folders. With Custom Groups version 0.7.0 onwards the same behavior also applies to adding users to Custom Groups. https://github.com/owncloud/core/pull/40155[#40155] https://github.com/owncloud/customgroups/pull/522[customgroups#522] https://github.com/owncloud/guests/pull/506[guests#506]

=== Inviting New Guests to Custom Groups

> Server 10.11 in combination with Custom Groups 0.7.0 and Guests 0.11.0 allows inviting new guest users directly into a Custom Group. Previously this was only possible by sharing files with new guests first and creating their user account thereby. New guests will not have access to any files nor will they be able to create/upload their own files unless there is a share with the respective Custom Group or with the guest user. https://github.com/owncloud/customgroups/pull/521[#521] https://github.com/owncloud/guests/pull/506[guests#506]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server 10.11 in combination with Custom Groups 0.7.0 and Guests 0.12.0 allows inviting new guest users directly into a Custom Group. Previously this was only possible by sharing files with new guests first and creating their user account thereby. New guests will not have access to any files nor will they be able to create/upload their own files unless there is a share with the respective Custom Group or with the guest user. https://github.com/owncloud/customgroups/pull/521[#521] https://github.com/owncloud/guests/pull/506[guests#506]
```

Or mention  "Guests 0.11.0 or later"

oC10.11 will now have Guests 0.12.0 so it might be a bit confusing for readers who see 0.11.0 written here?

Reviewer 4: @jnweiger if nothing speak against mentioning guests 0.12, proposing to commit this suggestion - ok to you?

Author: already committed
